Dear fellow practitioners, within our noses,
within our hearts, there are
seven kinds of emotions: joy, sorrow, love, hate, longing, affection, and aversion, are
n't there? These seven states of
mind are constantly fluctuating,
causing
us to be restless. This
means that our seven impermanent minds are
combined with the seven impermanent minds
of those around us,
multiplying them many times over. This is
called a mental wave. When these waves
collide,
for example, a
joyful mind harmonizes with another, bringing joy to everyone. But when angry
minds collide, it could
cause the earth to explode, wouldn't it,
dear fellow practitioners?
Therefore, these mental waves,
their frequencies clashing, give rise to
suffering or joy for us.
In family, among friends, in
society, in the village—in all relationships—
we never have a single
relationship that is consistently good from beginning to end.
For example,
we must have our parents.  We are born,
but let's count
how many times
we have rebelled against our parents from the moment we were born until now. Is
n't that right, dear friends? Let's see
how many times we have rebelled against our parents.
Therefore, conflict is
inevitable. The way we resolve conflicts
reveals two states: the
wise and the foolish. If a
wise person handles a situation, it will
always turn out well.
But with
a foolish person, the situation will always
become complicated, won't it? When
something happens to us, there are
two ways to react. The first way, the
wise person, is to turn a
big problem into a small one, minimizing the issue
and resolving it in the most peaceful and
lawful way possible. Peaceful, but
lawful. That's the way of the wise. The
way of the foolish person is to
blow small matters into
big ones, turning good into evil, and
little good into much bad.
Therefore, through each event, we can also
discern...  Wise and foolish, let's
wait for the opinions of the wise and the foolish.
Therefore, with all matters in the
club, we must
practice the way of resolving things, the way of wise and esteemed fellow
practitioners. Those with wisdom and determination should correct mistakes, turning big
problems into small ones and small problems into nothing.
We shouldn't use the method of blowing small things
out of proportion. That's why
we must learn about the
consequences of
blowing small things out of proportion. In the Dharma community, when small things are blown out of proportion, and we ourselves are human beings,
we must understand the characteristics of those who
blow small things out of proportion. These
are people who spread rumors, speak ill of others behind their backs, or form groups to cause conflict. These are people who make
small things into big ones, and the Buddha
taught that such people are wise and esteemed.
Do you understand? Foolish people, on the other hand, often
form groups,
speak ill of others, spread rumors, and add fuel to the fire.
Their actions are not righteous.  It's
right, but the
club has provided methods
that help us practice,
making us become enlightened.
These methods are suitable for enlightened individuals: if there's a
problem, we should
speak frankly in meetings or propose a meeting to
discuss it, and after leaving the
meeting, we shouldn't say anything more. We
respect our own opinions and the opinions of
others. That's the behavior of an enlightened person,
and such a person will
live a peaceful and
beautiful life, free from troubles. On the other hand,
those who constantly talk
behind people's backs, forming cliques and
speaking ill of others,
rarely have a peaceful and
beautiful life. They often encounter
misfortune and trouble. When things happen, conflicts arise,
causing
distress and suffering. If one's mind is clear, and one has never been bothered by
such things from childhood to adulthood, and does
n't participate in anything that
feels wrong or unjust, then one should
not participate.
Therefore, focusing on the mind, I
say no to those who speak ill of
others. I don't listen to them, I don't participate.
These are things I don't do, and I don't listen to those who
speak ill of others. I don't participate in the gossip, or the
group chatter. If there's any issue, it's
essential to consider whether what
I say will have any effect and
where it's appropriate to say it. I
don't say things that will cause trouble for me, and
I do
n't
waste time. I also
share this with my fellow practitioners so that you can
examine your own minds and behavior.
If you find anything that isn't in line
with wisdom, you should discard it, because
we have this life and many other lives ahead.
Our behavior is our
character, our
karma, our blessings. If we don't
learn how to behave, we will forever remain
ignorant. Do you
agree, fellow practitioners? We study Buddhism to
learn the way of behaving like the Buddha.
We are still here, but those who go to become monks or nuns follow
so many precepts and regulations. For
men, there are 250 precepts plus
thousands of rules; for
women, there are 348 precepts plus
thousands of
rules. And yet, if we are still here, how can we become virtuous and righteous people? How can we have the opportunity to become monks or nuns? And if we do become monks or nuns, how can we remember and understand the moral principles to practice and attain enlightenment? Therefore, we
must strive to become
virtuous people, not listening to or
speaking
things that are not in accordance with the Dharma,
listening to and speaking truthfully and virtuously in the
right place, at the right time.
That is our criterion when
listening and speaking. We must have a
clear criterion, dear fellow practitioners. If
we do not have a criterion
to correct
ourselves, we will become
unvirtuous, unwise people. When
we see something wrong,
we should acknowledge it and let it go,
not persist.  Trying to make things even more wrong is
precious, isn't it? Right here,
right now, with the presence of the Han
family, we should learn from
experience and realize our mistakes from B onwards. We
shouldn't try to do anything or practice those
wrong things. It won't bring
us results in this life or the next, it will only bring
suffering, right?
K
[music]